# Matt Selle ePortfolio Final Capstone from SNHU

## Professional Self-Assessment
My coursework at SNHU has been instrumental in shaping the skills essential for my career in computer science. Each course provided a unique opportunity to engage in hands-on projects, often guided by stakeholder input, which closely mimicked real-world scenarios. This experience has not only enhanced my technical abilities but also sharpened my understanding of the collaborative and communicative aspects of software development. One of the most valuable lessons I’ve learned is the importance of teamwork and effective communication. Whether collaborating with classmates on complex problems in reverse software engineering (CS410) or discussing solutions in online forums, I developed the ability to work effectively within a team environment. These interactions honed my problem-solving skills and taught me how to articulate technical concepts clearly, both to peers and stakeholders. In terms of technical proficiency, I gained a deep understanding of data structures and algorithms through courses like CS350, where I created a machine learning simulation that solved a maze puzzle. This project, in particular, allowed me to apply advanced algorithms to practical problems, reinforcing my ability to think critically and solve complex challenges. My experience with software engineering and databases was equally comprehensive. From building databases with MySQL and MongoDB to connecting them to Python programs for full-stack applications, I developed a robust foundation in both backend and frontend development. Courses such as CS465 (Full Stack Development) provided me with the skills to create efficient, secure, and user-friendly web applications, bridging the gap between data management and user experience. Security was a recurring theme throughout my coursework, and I was able to deepen my knowledge through classes like CS305 (Software Security) and CS405 (Secure Coding). I learned the importance of secure coding practices, including cryptography and the avoidance of hard-coded credentials. These courses equipped me with the tools to write code that is not only functional but also resilient against potential security threats. Overall, my SNHU coursework has thoroughly prepared me for a successful career in software engineering. The combination of technical skills, teamwork, stakeholder communication, and a strong emphasis on security has given me the confidence to tackle real-world challenges and continue learning in an ever-evolving field.

## Overview
This portfolio displays my abilities in software design and engineering, algorithms and data structures, and databases. I chose three artifacts from three courses I took over the course of my degree and enhanced them to further display my skills in these categories. The first artifact is from CS350 (Emerging Systems Architectures and Technologies), and is the final project that was completed. I took this project and enhanced it to display my abilities in software design and engineering by expanding on the softwares functionality and increasing its practicality. The second artifact is from CS330 (Computational Graphics and Visualization). I enhanced this artifact by including more complicated and better utilized data structures and algorithms to solidify the overall project code. The third and final artifact is from CS340 (Advanced Programming Concepts). I enhanced this final artifact by creating a MongoDB interface with a React website to prove my abilities with databases. Before I had written any enhancements for the artifacts I created an informal code review that went over the code for each artifact, and highlighted their strengths and weaknesses that I would address.

## Informal Code Review
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/zqlPjvbjAMk?si=Ef1HTlvz9M6JaGp1" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
This video contains an informal code review for all three artifacts that were later enhanced based on the points brought up in this code review.

## Artifact One - TI Board Thermometer
- [Original Artifact One Code](https://github.com/mlineselle/CS-350-H7050-Emerging-Sys-Arch-Tech.git)
- [Enhanced Artifact One Code](https://github.com/mlineselle/ArtifactOneEnhancement.git)

### Narrative for Artifact One
This artifact is an embedded C program that runs an example thermostat on a TI Launchpad CC3220S. It runs using a timer that was created, and using the build in functionality of the board with UART2 and I2C, along with a temperature sensor and buttons, it detects the current temperature and will activate the heat if it is too cold. I chose this artifact as it was one of the few programs that interacted with a physical object and went through the board. This is a crucial skill for several fields of software engineering, and may be something I wish to pursue. I want to showcase how I can learn to design software that runs on hardware and can accomplish tasks in the physical world, as well as being able to debug and fix this code. I improved the artifact by including a PID system for the thermostat for more accuracy, along with adding some more error handling and general code improvement. I also designed code to utilize the board's onboard wifi connection chip to have it offload the thermostat data to an HTTP website. I have met the course objectives that I had planned with this enhancement. I fixed some of the security and demonstrated that I could write a popular piece of software, a PID system for a specific piece of equipment. I also demonstrated my ability to utilize the board to its fullest through the wifi and connecting to HTTP. When I was writing this code, I realized that the PID system was not as difficult as I originally expected, however getting the HTTP code to work was difficult. I did not have a public server so had to host one privately and get the wifi to connect to it. I also realized that I had no idea how to securely hide the website password on the board code, but since the board shouldnt be able to be attacked easily I thought it would be an okay practice to leave it there.

## Artifact Two - OpenGL Kitchen Render
- [Original Artifact Two Code](https://github.com/mlineselle/CS-330-Comp-Graphic-and-Visualization.git)
- [Enhanced Artifact Two Code](https://github.com/mlineselle/ArtifactTwoEnhancement.git)

### Narrative for Artifact Two
This artifact is a rendered 3D scene written in C++ with OpenGL. I wrote a file that does all the work for creating vertices and then rendering them into a 3D space. This scene includes objects of various shapes and sizes as well as individually textured and the scene has lighting. This artifact displays my ability to understand the functionality behind modern technology and that I can learn new skills and languages quickly. OpenGL has many higher level languages and programs that never make you go into such detail for rendering. This shows that I have a grasp at languages at their base forms, meaning I should be able to use that knowledge and create more efficient code. There are many algorithms that were used for creating the vertices of all the objects in the scene and mapping the textures and dealing with lighting. To improve this artifact, I focused on the cube creation code that was very messy and hard to read as I did not use the proper data structures and algorithms to keep it clean. I rewrote the cube creation code to include data structures for parameters and texture mapping values. I also cleaned up how I created the cube vertices to be cleaner and included some helper functions and structures. After further review of my code, I was unable to find a way to make it render more efficiently as I realized it was already written in best practices in regards to rendering the shapes. As the code is in base OpenGL, and there is not many vertices to render, the code is very effecient and is difficult to make any more effecient. This led me to focus more on adding data structures for my texture mapping values and fixing up sloppy and unreadable code. I learned the importance of taking a second look at the code and cleaning it up to make it stronger and more readable for other programmers. I had some challenges in making sure my objects rendered correctly when changing how the vertices were created, but was successful in the end.

## Artifact Three - Dog Shelter Website and Database
- [Original Artifact Three Code](https://github.com/mlineselle/CS-340-Client-Development.git)
- [Enhanced Artifact Three Code](https://github.com/mlineselle/ArtifactThreeEnhancement.git)

### Narrative for Artifact Three
This artifact is a website that displays data from a dog shelter along with a pie chart and a geolocation map with pins. It runs off of a python file to deal with CRUD operations connected to a mongoDB database, along with a jupyter file that runs the frontend website. This item displays an ability to develop not only the front end of a website but also handle the backend with a secure database. This displays my specific abilities of full stack development of websites which is something I want to go into. I improved the artifact by moving it into a more used React website with javascript. I did meet almost all the objectives, however I was unable to transfer the original database as it was in the virtual desktop for the class. Instead, I created a new database in mongoDB Atlas and added two dogs just to make sure everything was working. I was successful in upgrading this website as React is still very popular in the modern coding world and is something I want to continue to work with. I was able to build a more collaborative environment by making the website into a more frequently used language, as well as being able to use well-founded full stack programming techniques, and skills. This was a difficult enhancement and the website still has a few issues in terms of stability. There are some errors that occasionally come up, but after a cache reload would go away. This would be an issue if the website were real, so I would want to further enhance that. I also had trouble at one point getting my database on mongoDB Atlas to connect with my local host website and had to install a new dependency to get them to work together. I made sure to use helpful software like Postman to make sure that my database was set up correctly when I had issues loading data on the site. Overall, I learned a lot from this enhancement and am proud of the work I have done.




